Soumyo/ec2 eip resource (#322)
inspec/inspec-aws: docs/resources/aws_ec2_eip.md

---
title: About the aws_ec2_eip Resource
platform: aws
---

# aws\_eip

Use the `aws_eip` InSpec audit resource to test properties of a single specific Elastic IP (EIP). 

> A Elastic IP (EIP) is uniquely identified by the Public IP (e.g. 18.192.107.8)

Reviewer: There are several IP addresses reserved for documentation.
```suggestion
An Elastic IP (EIP) is uniquely identified by the public IPv4 address, for example `192.0.2.0`.
```

## Syntax

Ensure that a Public IP exists.

    # Find a Public IP by public_ip

>     describe aws_ec2_eip(public_ip: '18.192.107.8') do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    describe aws_ec2_eip(public_ip: '192.0.2.0') do
```

      it { should exist }
    end
    
    # Hash syntax for public_ip

>     describe aws_ec2_eip(public_ip: '18.192.107.8') do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    describe aws_ec2_eip(public_ip: '192.0.2.0') do
```

      it { should exist }
    end

## Parameters

> This resource expects the Public IP as a parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`public_ip` _(required)_

This resource requires the public IPv4 address as a string.
```

> See also the [AWS documentation on Elastic IP (EIP)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-properties-ec2-eip.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For additional information, see the [AWS documentation on Elastic IP (EIP)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-properties-ec2-eip.html).
```

## Properties

| Property | Description|
| --- | --- |
| public_ip | The Elastic IP address, or the carrier IP address. |
| instance_id | The ID of the instance the address is associated with, if any. |
| allocation_id | The allocation ID for the address. |
| association_id | The association ID for the address. |
| domain | Indicates whether the address is for use in EC2-Classic (standard) or in a VPC (vpc). |
| network_interface_id | The ID of the network interface that the address is associated with, if any. |
| network_interface_owner_id | The AWS account ID of the owner. |
| private_ip_address | The private IP address associated with the Elastic IP address. |
| public_ipv_4_pool | The Elastic IPV4 pool address. |
| network_border_group | A unique set of Availability Zones, Local Zones, or Wavelength Zones from where AWS advertises IP addresses. |

## Examples

> ##### Ensure a Public IP is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Ensure a Public IP is available.

```

>     describe aws_ec2_eip(public_ip: '18.192.107.8') do
>       its('public_ip') { should eq '18.192.107.8' }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    describe aws_ec2_eip(public_ip: '192.0.2.0') do
      its('public_ip') { should eq '192.0.2.0' }
```

    end

> ##### Ensure that the domain is vpc or standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Ensure that the domain is vpc or standard.

```

>     describe aws_ec2_eip(public_ip: '18.192.107.8') do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    describe aws_ec2_eip(public_ip: '192.0.2.0') do
```

        its('domain') { should eq 'vpc' }
    end

## Matchers

This InSpec audit resource has the following special matchers. For a full list of available matchers, please visit our [Universal Matchers page](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/matchers/).

> The controls will pass if the describe returns at least one result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The controls will pass if the `describe` method returns at least one result.
```

> #### exist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### exist
```

> Use `should_not` to test the entity should not exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `should` to test that the entity exists.
```

>     describe aws_ec2_eip(public_ip: '18.192.107.8') do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    describe aws_ec2_eip(public_ip: '192.0.2.0') do
```

      it { should exist }
    end

>       

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Use `should_not` to test that the entity does not exist.

```

>     describe aws_vpc_endpoint(public_ip: '18.192.101.8') do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    describe aws_vpc_endpoint(public_ip: '192.0.2.0') do
```

      it { should_not exist }
    end

> #### be_available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### be_available
```

> Checks if the Addresses is in available state.
> Use `should_not` to test the entity should not exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check if the IP address is available.
```

>     describe aws_ec2_eip(public_ip: '18.192.107.8') do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    describe aws_ec2_eip(public_ip: '192.0.2.0') do
```

      it { should be_available }
    end

>       

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Use `should_not` to test an IP address that should not exist.

```

    describe aws_ec2_eip(public_ip: '18.192.101.8') do
      it { should_not be_available }
    end

## AWS Permissions

> Your [Principal](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/intro-structure.html#intro-structure-principal) will need the `ec2:DescribeAddresses` action with Effect set to Allow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your [Principal](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/intro-structure.html#intro-structure-principal) will need the `ec2:DescribeAddresses` action with `Effect` set to `Allow`.
```

> You can find detailed documentation at [Actions, Resources, and Condition Keys for Amazon EC2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/list_amazonec2.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Actions, Resources, and Condition Keys for Amazon EC2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/list_amazonec2.html) documentation for additional information.
```
